the nations of the world have agreed
that no country can claim Antarctica or
prospect for its oil or minerals the
only significant human activities
allowed here are those that extend our
scientific knowledge
but unlocking Antarctica's secrets
requires some unusual tools
[Music]
this brand-new robot submarine has been
designed to go far beyond the limits of
any human
today this diver is putting the sub
through its paces on one of its very
first stories it's designed to be small
and nimble enough to explore the
Antarctic sea bed without damaging it
the submarines mission as it journeys
into the unknown is to map the sea for
and look for species new to science
see water here is a degree below zero so
even the toughest human diver can't stay
down for long
the submarine will explore deeper under
the ice than anyone has gone before
[Music]
from the depths of the ocean to the
highest peaks of the land new
discoveries are being made even in
places which were first visited over a
century ago
[Music]